Making my way to security

To be honest this flask_mysql_app is just a small proj for me to understand how flask works on python, since this is what we are
using on our case study so I tried to make a simple app that connects to a mysql database a simple get post and just to understand
routes, and I made a repo on github to just try to make things work, know how to git add . and small version control.

This is also where I learned about environment variables that WE SHOULD'NT HARCODE PASSWORDS OR ANYTHING THAT COULD COMPROMISE
THE SYSTEM. Tho this has not all been me, I have a great teacher and the reason why I'm doing all this is because I've been 
inspired and I wanna know how to create secure systems, although I know of some things like RBAC and Principle of Least Priviledge
Etc... I still haven't implemented it on a real system nor even tried it

First day i made a simple app that just connects to a database in my case i used MySQL Maria DB, and I made some tables
that showed the data and simple prepared statements, and i actually hardcoded my password lol i still used root and didn't
make a new user (my teacher's gon get mad lmao) and i think i dont remember what happened exactly after that, maybe i refactored
my .gitignore since it contained too many files, and added a requirements file??

MAY 15, 2026
------------
This is where I made my mock database containing of 3 tables user, roles, and user_roles and I tried to use SQLAlchemy an ORM
but I didn't quite understood it so i reverted to using prepared statements first. I also looked at my code to
automatically assign a default role when adding a new user basically getting the hang of things.

MAY 16, 2026
------------
I added a simple SQL file that showed my database creation using raw sql so I have mock data, some users on my test app i added
using the no css UI lol.

This is where I also learned about GHOST USERS when a query cuts midway like the database got shutdown the process might not be saved 
worse may be incomplete, So i used transaction equivalent a try catch logic so that it only commits it when all the functions are
done if it isnt done it rollsback like nothing happened

MAY 17, 2026 
------------
This is probably the biggest and the most humbling experience I had as of the creation, I was trynna use RBAC and i thought to myself, what
if I just do stored procedures for everything and just make a user that can execute it? I sounded so proud like that's bulletproof
to sql injections, but then if we scale things RBAC alone won't cut it and stored procedures won't cut it alone, so as I was
scrolling YouTube, I stumbled upon this video titled RBAC vs ABAC by IBM Technology.
reference here: https://youtu.be/rvZ35YW4t5k?si=gR4FwxZoCp4TDKUI
And it introduced me to one step further from RBAC it's ABAC and that's why i also modified my sql tables to add trust_level and 
account status, to help me prepare how to navigate this new knowledge. It's basically a much stricter than RBAC and I also 
got introduced to security architecture that's why I made a pdp.py or Policy Decision Point  and I also learned about the concept
of Policy Enforcement Point the workflow that i discovered is PEP > Context > PDP > DB Execution, this checks a lot of things
but I told myself since if i create a PDP and this functions on the main app like one file one app, wouldnt it be worthless if
an attacker compromised the app itself? No? I'll keep that in mind but I'll try to do this first on the app, and ill also be
learning docker and railway so i can host not just on localhost.